---
sidebar_position: 12
description: Ingest GO Modules and Dependencies into your catalog
---

import GoBlueprint from "./resources/go/\_example_go_blueprint.mdx";
import GoConfiguration from "./resources/go/\_example_go_webhook_configuration.mdx"
import GoShell from "./resources/go/\_example_go_bash.mdx"

# GO

In this example you are going to create a webhook integration between [GO](https://go.dev/) and Port, which will ingest GO Modules,Version and Dependencies to Port and map them to your Blueprint entities. This integration will involve setting up a webhook to keep track of module,version and dependencies of your Golang application whenever a go lang application is created or updated, allowing Port to ingest and process the GO entities accordingly.


## Prerequisites

Create the following blueprint definitions and webhook configuration:

<details>
<summary>GO module blueprint</summary>
<GoBlueprint/>
</details>

<details>
<summary>GO webhook configuration</summary>
<GoConfiguration/>
</details>

<details>
<summary>GO Bash configuration</summary>
<GoShell/>
</details>

## Parsing go.mod file and sending dependency data to Port

:::note
The bash script detailed in this guide is designed to parse a go.mod file located in the root of your Go project, extract direct and indirect dependencies, and send this data to Port. It is structured to differentiate between direct and indirect dependencies, and is configured to send data to Port using a specific webhook URL. The script also outputs the parsed data to an output.json file, which is useful for debugging and confirming the data structure, particularly in projects with numerous dependencies.

<details>
<summary>Script Overview</summary>

The script consists of two main functions: parse_go_mod and send_to_port.


parse_go_mod

This function parses the go.mod file, extracting relevant information about the module, Go version, direct dependencies (listed under require), and indirect dependencies (listed under require with an // indirect comment).

The parsed data is assembled into a JSON object and printed to the console. The JSON object is also written into an output.json file to facilitate debugging.

send_to_port

This function sends the JSON data generated by the parse_go_mod function to Port via an HTTP POST request. The function checks for a successful HTTP response (status code 202). If the data is sent successfully, it outputs "Data sent successfully." If an error occurs during sending, it outputs "Error sending data, HTTP response code: {response code}."

</details>
:::

### Script Usage
1. Copy the script into a file in the root of your Go project. Make sure your go.mod file is also located in the root of the project;
2. Make the script executable. For instance, if you named the script parse_and_send.sh, you would use the following command;
    ```json showLineNumbers
    chmod +x parse_and_send.sh
    ```
3. Run the script:
    ```json showLineNumbers
    ./parse_and_send.sh
    ```

Done! After the script has run, you should see a new file in your project root named output.json containing the parsed go.mod data. The script also prints the HTTP response code after attempting to send the data to Port.